---
name: ADHD and Successful Thinking
created: 2022-11-28T17:18:44-06:00
updated: 2023-04-26T23:09:15-05:00
aliases: 
tags: quora, adhd
---
# ADHD and Successful Thinking

From this post on quora: https://qr.ae/prXK5X

First and foremost, nearly anyone anywhere with nearly any deficit can have a 4.0—even people with low intelligence. In most cases, the only real limiting factors are time and method. Additionally, study skills alone will not produce a 4.0 GPA. Below, I will detail both the why and the how of my success:

The Why (Successful Thinking)

'Adultness'— I am the most 'adult' person I know. That is to say that I never allow my feelings to be an excuse for doing the wrong thing. Whether it's overeating or watching TV at the wrong time, it's all still wrong. I don't do the wrong thing; that is the nature of an adult.

Written Goals— I have clearly defined written goals backed by detailed plans. Most adults have no goals. They have wishes. Goals are endpoints in time and sequence. That means actual goals have honest-to-goodness real deadlines and they take multiple steps to complete. The human brain has a working memory that is only FOUR BITS WIDE. You should have multiple goals in every area of your life. [Start with no more than three.] No human being can acutely track all those details and still perform optimally. Get those goals out of working memory and write them down. If your goals aren't written down, then all you really have are wishes.

Planning in Advance— I plan everything. I plan my month before it starts. I plan my week (Monday-Sunday) the Sunday before. I keep a productivity journal and record my thoughts on what works and what doesn't periodically over the course of every day. Every night while laying in bed, I review my day and plan tomorrow. Tomorrow starts today! Don't ever forget that. Every morning—before I even get out of bed—I go over my calendar and tasks and finalize my day.

Priority vs Urgency— I know the difference between priority and urgency. Many people do not. They mistakingly believe that these words are truly synonymous and think of them interchangeably. Filing our federal income taxes is important. However, when they aren't due for another nine months, they can hardly be called urgent. On the opposite spectrum, all telephone calls are urgent. Nearly none of them are important. Especially the ones from telemarketers!

To-do Lists— I make lists ordered by priority and sequence. I use OmniFocus on OS X and iOS to list all of my goals (long, mid, and short). All of my milestones, projects, and tasks are then arranged hierarchically beneath them. This means that my entire task list naturally alignes with my goals. I'm always working from my goal-aligned task list and update it whenever I think of something. I never leave things floating around in my head.

Time blocking— I maintain a separate calendar in my calendar app called Focus Time. I use it to block out the times in my day where I can batch process contextually identical tasks. All phone calls, for example, are the same context (i.e @phone) and can be batched together in a single block of time.

Eat that Frog!— Frogs, in this case, being your ugliest and most important tasks. Always eat your frog first and, when choosing between two frogs, always eat the ugliest one first. ALWAYS. Your ugliest and most important tasks are the ones you're most likely to procrastinate on. Procrastination creates anxiety and the longer you keep that anxiety in your heart the worse your life is. Do them FIRST! This single behavior will all but TOTALLY ELIMINATE procrastination and anxiety from your life. Brian Tracy wrote a fantastic called Eat that Frog! and studying it is one of the best things you will could ever do for yourself.

Smart Procrastination— I deliberately procrastinate. There is never an intelligent reason to do unimportant tasks when you still have important things to do. Never. Feelings are irrelevant. There is never enough time to do everything so just give up on thinking that you can. Deliberately procrastinating on all of your least valuable tasks is one of the best things that can ever happen to your personal productivity. Always start with your ugliest frog and work quickly and well, in order, from your ugliest task progressively towards your least ugly until—finally—things start looking downright lovely. Working this way becomes achievement through a process of liberation. Willpower is a finite quantity and we have the most we will ever have in our day first thing in the morning. Now your task list is aligned with your strength of will. Once you start working this way, every day of the rest of your life will feel awesome.

Calendars as Thinking Tools— I use a calendar the right way! Many people don't. The list bellow (with the exception of Key Time) was taken from Asian Efficiency: Time Management and Productivity - Asian Efficiency. A calendar should contain ONLY the following:

Appointments: dentist, classes, dinner with friends, meetings, etc.
Deadlines: handing in report, filing taxes, etc.
Events: pay day, birthdays, holidays, package arrival, etc.
Time Sensitive Errands: buying something before store closing time.
Focus Time: when you set time aside to work on something important and no one can disturb you. Should always be a separate calandar in whatever app you use.
Key Time: essentially a way to highlight and label important parts of your day. Mostly used as a focusing tool for improving your workflow. Should always be a separate calandar in whatever app you use.
Personal Integrity— I always keep my promises—especially the ones I make to myself. It's an issue of personal integrity. You can't reliably keep the promises you make to others if you can't keep the ones you make to yourself. If you've blocked out two hours during the day to study math, then you start exactly when you're supposed to start and stop exactly when you're supposed to stop. Your feelings are irrelevant.
Schedules— Gaurd them with your life! The most successful people on earth all have closely kept routines that they guard with their lives. Why? Their success depends on them! The bit I mentioned above about personal integrity turns into a super power when keeping to an optimal schedule.
Produce Immediately— The first thing I do every morning after I get out bed and take my Adderall XR and Provigil is PRODUCE. Morning is the compass of your day. I get some actual useful work done first and then I immediately shave, shower, dress, and prepare for the day.
Sleeping— I guard my sleep like a vicious fire breathing dragon. Sleep is vital for learning. We only grow dendrites to support our learning when we sleep. Here's some irrefutable Boolien logic for you: !sleep == !dendrites == F. Don't fight falling asleep when you're studying. That's your brain GROWING dendrites to support your new knowledge! You should wake up after two at three minutes anyway.
Innovation— I never stop innovating. If there's a faster or more effective way of doing something, chances are that I'm doing it that way now. If I'm not, then I will be tomorrow. For example, I'm about to begin studying Gregg shorthand. Why? So that I can take lecture notes at 225 words per minute WITH A PEN. I can only type at 60 wpm! Truly listening to a lecture and seriously thinking about what you're listening to are extremely difficult when you're trying to take excellent notes. At 225 words a minute, I'll be able to do all three with no appreciable data loss.
Technology—I'm a hacker (classically speaking). Technology is my b**ch. I use it more effectively then nearly anyone you will ever meet. I never let poor design get in my way. If it doesn't do what I want it to do, then I make it. Technology will either limit you or empower you. Choose the latter and bend it to your will.
Time Management— Most people with a ADHD struggle with time management. Implementing everything I mentioned above will inexorably make you enormously successful at managing your time. That just leaves your overall sense of time which is very easy to fix.
Sense of Time— Like time management mentioned above, most people with ADHD have a very poor sense of time. The error they make, however, is not a failure of biology but a failure of thinking. They are unskilled in the setting and conscientious observation of clear measurable objectives and milestones for time dependent tasks. This is the skill of goal setting on the micro scale. This thought process creates our sense of time during the times Time matters most (e.g. work). Time is relative—literally—and our perception of it beyond 2 minutes (it may be four) is statistically unreliable and must be anchored to physically observable phenomena. We will only observe that phenomena when we care about it. That's why it not good enough to just say that you're going to study data structures for two hours. What chapters specifically? Any two hour project has steps that, by their very nature, demand a deadline. Write each specific deadline for each milestone and subtask and then actively try to beat them. Implement EVERYTHING I have said in my answer until this point and you will never loose track of time again.
A Note on Productivity Gurus

If David Alan and Franklin Covey are personal productivity gods, then Brian Tracy is their Zeus. Just buy everything these guys have ever written and study them like your life depends on it because it does.

The How (Methods of Learning)

I'll have to expand this portion of my answer within the next couple of days. For now, here's a few do's and don'ts.

Highlighting— Never highlight a physical book—ever. It's been empirically proven to be a waste of time. (http://www.indiana.edu/~pcl/rgoldsto/courses/dunloskyimprovinglearning.pdf). Digital books are another matter. You should highlight them. Then export your highlights on a per chapter basis. Invariably, you will have to spend a few seconds grouping some highlights together. After that, minimally rewrite each highlight as one or more Q & A pairs. Import those pairs into a digital flashcard app. Brainscape is the best.
Rereading— Never reread anything—ever (same link as above). You should be taking notes WHILE you read. There is no reason then to reread a text. In the time it takes you to reread a text one time, you should be able to reread your notes MULTIPLE TIMES. Ideally, you should be taking notes in a way that is easily translatable into flashcards. More on that later.
Spaced Repetition— Optimal learning is achieved through spaced repetition. This spacing must happen over DAYS, WEEKS, and MONTHS if you want to truly retain something. The intervals at which you study the same material must be progressively spaced farther and farther apart. Cramming guarantee data loss and inefficient storage. It's not just an A student saying this either. It's the ENTIRE FIELD OF NEUROSCIENCE. Embrace it! Never cram. This is why a concrete study schedule is so important and, by extension, why personal integrity is vital to academic success.
Interleaving— Studies have shown that mixing a variety of problems together rather than just working on one kind during a study session markedly improves student learning outcomes. What I do is mix my review into my current homework. I know how long every type of homework assignment takes me. When planning my week, I allocate the appropriate amount of time plus 30%. That 30% is review of previous assignments interleaved throughout my homework period. That's right, I'm an efficient SOB.
Testing— Tests are your friends! Recall and spaced repetition are two of the three key components of the learning process. I'll get to the third next. Test yourself on the material you've supposedly learned multiple times a study session. ALWAYS. Recall and repetition are how people learn. The easiest way to do this is with flashcards. Digital flashcard apps are ASTRONOMICALLY more efficient to use than paper flashcards. They even give you a score at the end. If you've taken proper notes/flashcards, that score is pretty much the grade you'll get on the test. Brainscape is far and away the best one out there. It's the only one, to my knowledge, that uses confidence based testing. Believe me, that makes a LOT of difference.
Chunking— Our brains group similar things together into conceptual chunks. When studying, it pays dividends to remember that. Look for ways to chunk material into your brain. Study from one complete idea to the next. NEVER do less than that. I don't care if the professor tells you that you only need to read until page 373. If the complete idea means you need to read another three pages then that's what you do. Your professors have your best interest at heart but that doesn't mean that they will always execute that desire effectively. Additionally, chunking works best when you start with a broad concept and then drill down. Learning the broad concept first gives you a kind of scaffolding to hang the rest of your knowledge off of.
Doing— As CS students, we are screwed. Factual things like formulas, dates, and ideas can be easily learned with flashcards. Unfortunately, we had to pick a major that requires a lot of math and programming. Drawing, sculpting, dancing, mathematics, programming, and language are all examples of procedural skills. You can learn vocabulary and theory using flashcards but you will never be more than AWFUL at them unless you physically practice them. It takes ten YEARS or ten THOUSAND hours to master any skill. CS students who care about being the best at what they do need to practice both for at least one hour every day. When I say practice, I mean actually doing them and not just reading about them.
Some EXTREMELY Useful Links

Improving Students’ Learning With Effective Learning Techniques: Promising Directions From Cognitive and Educational Psychology http://www.indiana.edu/~pcl/rgoldsto/courses/dunloskyimprovinglearning.pdf
10 Rules of Good Studying http://www.oakland.edu/upload/docs/UG%20Education/Retention_Conference/Retention_Presenations/2014_Ret_Conf_Presentations/03_Learn_to_Learn_2.pdf
Learning How to Learn: Powerful mental tools to help you master tough subjects | University of California, San Diego https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn