# Jasper AI prompts
I couldn't find a good job until i took your job
- I was out of work and couldn't find a job that suited me. I saw an opening for your company and decided to apply. It seemed like the perfect job for me, but when I got there I realized that it was nothing like what I expected. The other employees were mean and the work was hard. But I stuck with it, because I needed the money. Slowly but surely, I started to fit in and make friends. And before long, I was one of top employees.
- I was out of work and couldn't find a good job. I applied to dozens of places, I just couldn't seem to get a break. Then I saw your ad. It said that you were looking for someone to do simple data entry. The pay was great, the hours were flexible.
- So I applied and got the job. It was perfect! But then something strange happened. My friends and family stopped talking to me. They said that I had sold out, or betrayed them in some way. They just didn't understand how I could take a job like that.
- But to me, it was the perfect job. The pay was great, the hours were flexible, and it allowed me to

## Ideas 
- Recommend gifts that one of your friends might like
- How do we know what other people want?  Survey?  Clicking/lingering habits?  Hovering habits?
- Like vs dislikes
- watches vs quickly scrolling away
- game.. people giving feedback on other people 
- top trumps card game
	- card with str 5 vs card with str 7.. 7 wins
	- human is given a combinations of attributes 
- Help young people make better decisions... be awaare of the decisions they are making and the implications of those things
	- Parents didn't go to college... 
		- Maybe if you knew about the opportunities for college grads, you'd be more likely to persue a college degree
		- Requirement mapping.. what do you need to accomplish before you can accomplish this "thing"
		- Get married?
			- Find a relationship
				- get to know someone really well?
					- talk to someone
		- Get a master degree